README.md, before:

# DiskMINT
## DiskMINT (Disk Model For INdividual Targets): a tool to estimate disk masses with CO isotopologues

**Contributors:**

Dingshan Deng (dingshandeng@arizona.edu),
The University of Arizona

Maxime Ruaud,
SETI Institute

Uma Gorti,
SETI Institute

Ilaria Pascucci,
The University of Arizona

## About DiskMINT

`DiskMINT` (Disk Model for INdividual Targets) is a tool for modeling individual disks and deriving more robust disk mass estimates.
`DiskMINT` is a `Python3`-`Fortran` code built on [`RADMC-3D` v2.0](https://github.com/dullemond/radmc3d-2.0) for the continuum (and gas line) radiative transfer, and it includes a reduced chemical network suggested in [Ruaud, Gorti & Hollenbach (2022)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022ApJ...925...49R/abstract) to determine the C18O emission.
For more information, see [Deng et al. (2023)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023arXiv230702657D/abstract).

### The Code

The code contains two parts:

(A) a `Python3` module (located in `DiskMINT/diskmint/`) that is capable of generating a self-consistent 2D disk structure that satisfies VHSE (Vertical Hydrostatic Equilibrium).

(B) a `Fortran` code (located in `DiskMINT/chemistry/`) of the reduced chemical network focusing on modeling C18O in the disk, and it contains the main chemical processes that are necessary for the C18O modeling: a. the isotopologue-selective photodissociation; b. the grain-surface chemistry where the CO converting to CO2 ice is the main reaction.

`DiskMINT` is still a developing tool, and we aim to build it as an easy-to-update and easy-to-use tool. 
Feel free to put any questions, suggestions, and/or comments on the `GitHub` page or directly email the author (dingshandeng@arizona.edu).

`DiskMINT` is open source and released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You are free to use, modify, and distribute this codebase in accordance with the terms and conditions of the license.

---

## REQUIREMENTS:

**RADMC-3D.** `DiskMINT` relies on `RADMC-3D` (currently built on [`RADMC-3D` v2.0](https://github.com/dullemond/radmc3d-2.0)) to do radiative transfer and generate the thermal distributions.
So please make sure the `RADMC-3D` is properly installed.

**Python Module.** The `Python3` module of `DiskMINT` relies on several auxiliary but widely used `Python3` packages:

```
    numpy: used for array operations
    os, sys, copy, shutil: used for handling files and paths
    subprocess (for chemical network): used for executing Fortran code if you want to use the chemical network we provided
    radmc3dPy (v2.00): used for handling RADMC-3D format files
```

NOTE: There are also a few other packages that are required by [`radmc3dPy`](https://www.ita.uni-heidelberg.de/~dullemond/software/radmc-3d/manual_radmc3d/index.html), such as `Matplotlib`, so please check their website to properly install the package.

**Line Radiative Transfer Code.** The `DiskMINT` module will generate the thermal and density distributions of the disk, which can then be used to do line radiative transfer and make synthetic images.
We do not provide the code to do the line radiative transfer and synthetic imaging (*But do not worry, examples are provided*). 
To get the synthetic image, please use `LIME` -- supports LTE (Local Thermal Equilibrium) and non-LTE -- or the `RADMC-3D` -- only supports LTE -- line radiative transfer module. 
`LIME (v1.9.5)` and `RADMC-3D (v2.0)` are tested on `DiskMINT` model.
For the example results as presented in [Deng et al. (2023)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023arXiv230702657D/abstract), we used [`LIME` v1.9.5](https://github.com/lime-rt/lime) to do non-LTE line radiative transfer.

We also note that to compare with the observation, a proper **image convolution** based on the beam of observation is necessary, and including the continuum emission from the dust in the synthetic image would be helpful in many cases (the continuum can then be subtracted with the same method that is adopted for the observation dataset, or directly compare the synthetic image with continuum to the observation dataset that also contains the continuum).

**Dust Opacities.** Because one major step in the model is to match the Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) of the disk, which requires different dust opacities for each disk.
Therefore, to properly use the model, you need to bring your own dust opacity files (in `RADMC-3D` format), and we also provide a few examples here in the `/examples/`
We recommend using [`optool`](https://github.com/cdominik/optool) or [`dsharp_opac`](https://github.com/birnstiel/dsharp_opac) to generate the opacities for multiple size distributions that are required to correctly calculate the gas thermal structure from gas-dust thermal equilibrium.

---

## Quick Start

### INSTALLATION

1. Download the code to your local directory `Yourpath/DiskMINT/`: clone this repo using `git clone` or other methods to download the part of the code you would like to use. We kindly note that you need to put the package in a directory that you have permission to read, write and execute.
2. To use the `Python3` module (`Yourpath/DiskMINT/diskmint/`): add the path to the package to your `Python3` path: you can do this by adding the `Yourpath/DiskMINT/` to your `Python3` environment `$PATH`, or write `sys.path.append('Yourpath/DiskMINT/')` in the `Python3` script when you want to call the package. 
3. To use the chemical network (`Yourpath/DiskMINT/chemistry/`) we provided: go to `Yourpath/DiskMINT/chemistry/src/`. Edit the `Makefile` in the `src` folder, and change the ` FC = gfortran` to your version of `gfortran`. **Before `make`**, (a) (especially when you need to upgrade the chemical network) If `.o` and `.mod` files already exist in the `/src`, remove them by `rm -i *.o` and `rm -i *.mod`; (b) Make sure that your version of `gfortran` is 10 or higher (you can use `gfortran -v` to check). Note that in some legacy Linux system, the default `gfortran` installed is not the latest version, please check [`gfortran`](https://gcc.gnu.org/fortran) website for newer versions. Then just use command `make` to compile the `Fortran` chemical network.

*The code is built on a `Linux` machine with Intel CPU, and we note that to run `gfortran` on your ARM Mac, be sure to install `gcc` and not use the native `Darwin Mac` Version.*

### Try the examples

There are a few examples we provided to carry out disk modeling with DiskMINT in `Yourpath/DiskMINT/examples/` directory. For example, you can start running the example of the disk around RU Lup by following the steps below

1. Go to the `Yourpath/DiskMINT/examples/example_RULup/` directory.
2. Open the `Python3` script `example_model_RULup.py`. This script calls the functions from `diskmint` module to build your disk model, calls `RADMC-3D` to do radiative transfer and calculate the thermal structure, and also calls the chemical network we provide to calculate the molecular abundances.
3. Edit the `example_model_RULup.py` following the comments in the script. (a) Edit `package_position = "Yourpath/DiskMINT/"` to be the position where you put the module, and you can ignore this line (safe to comment out or delete) if you already add the `Python3` module to your `$PATH`. This is for enabling `import diskmint` in `Python3`; (b) Edit a list of directories and names, including where you want to run the code (`working_dir`), where you want to save the files (`save_dir`), what is the name to be saved for this model (`name_of_this_model`), name of the parameter file (`file_parameters`), and where is the chemical network (`chem_code_dir`); (c) Set up a list of the options of the model, including whether you want to read in your premade dust opacity info (`bool_MakeDustKappa`), to compute the SED (`bool_SED`), to solve the vertical hydrostatic equilibrium (`bool_VHSE`), to run the chemical network (`bool_chemistry`), and to save a copy of the model to your `save_dir` (`bool_savemodel`).
4. Then, you should be able to run the example model of RU Lup using `python3 example_model_RULup.py`.
5. The final output files are the density and thermal distribution in `RADMC-3D` format that can be read by `radmc3dPy` in the `data` folder. Also, if you are using the chemical network, there will be the `COinitgrid-*.dat` (initial grid for CO abundances), `COinitgrid-GSinit_*.dat` (initial grid for CO abundances with pre-set Gaussian vertical distribution before solving VHSE) and `COendgrid-*.chem` (the CO abundances after chemical network). The columns in these `COendgrids-*.chem` are {r[cm], z[cm], log10(abundanceH2)[relative to H nuclei], log10(abundanceC18O)[relative to H nuclei]}.
6. Then, you can use the line radiative transfer code to do the following line radiative transfer. We provide a simple wrapper for running `LIME` as an example in the `example_RULup/LIME_example_RULup/` folder.

### Build Your First DiskMINT Model

For using the model on another target, or if you want to play with it a bit, there are a few things that can be changed.

1. **Edit Parameter File.** Open (and edit) the file `example_RULup_parameters.dat` that sets all the parameters for this model. The data file structure follows `.csv` format (comma `,` as separator) and ignores the line starting with `#`. The columns are with the sequence `name(str), value(str/int/float), units(str), valuetype, description`. The parameters set in this `file_parameters` would be read in the `example_model_RULup.py` with the function `para.read_parameters_from_csv(filename=file_parameters)`, and the parameters can then be changed with `para.edit_parameter(para_name, new_value=new_value)`. So, some parameters already set in the `file_parameters`, such as the model name, are edited in the `Python3` script with `para.edit_parameter("chemical_save_name", new_value = name_of_this_model)`.

2. **Use New Dust Opacity - Part A.** To change the dust opacity (you need to make your own `RADMC-3D` format opacity files using other software such as `optool` or `dsharp_opac`), you need to edit the name of the opacity file (`dustopacname_1`) in the `file_parameters`. Currently, the code supports two different dust compositions, `dustopacname_1` and `dustopacname_2`, and the option of using only one `dustopacname_1` is well-tested. For each dust composition, it needs to be separated into different dust size bins, with the name sequence of `'dustkappa_'+dustopacname_1+'_'+str(i_dust)+'.inp`, where `i_dust` is an integer from `i_dust = 0` to the number of the total size bins `i_dust = (nr_dust_1 - 1)`, and `0` represents the smallest one while the `nr_dust_1 - 1` for the largest size. The `dustkappa_xxx.inp` files need to be put in the `data_dir` that was set in the `model.py` file.

3. **Use New Dust Opacity - Part B.** Besides the `dustkappa_xxx.inp` files, there are also a few other files related to the dust opacity information that need to be provided, including:

   1. `aave.inp` (1-d array): average dust radius of dust species in the unit of `cm`.

   2. `ndsd.inp` (1-d array): `nd(a) * np.pi * a**2`. Where `nd` is the number density of the dust with size `a`.

   3. `frac.inp` (1-d array): mass fractions of dust species -- the mass of the dust with this composition and size divided by the total mass -- the sum needs to be `1`.

   4. `frac_nb.inp` (1-d array): the number fractions of dust species -- number density of the dust with this composition and size divided by the total number density -- the sum needs to be `1`.

      You can follow the example files in the `data` folder to make your own files for the dust composition you used, and for example, if you already set up the `aave_array = np.array([1e-5, 1e-4, 1e-3])`, then you can save it with `np.savetxt('aave.inp', aave_array)`.
      We also provide the function in the code for *making these four `.inp` files* that for the dust opacity (currently only support single composition with `dustopacname_1`) with a simple power law distribution ($nd(a) \sim a^{-\mathrm{pla}}$ with $a_{\mathrm{min}} < a < a_{\mathrm{max}}$) and a uniformly distributed size in log-space (`ai = np.logspace(np.log10(para.amin_1), np.log10(para.amax_1), para.nr_dust_1 + 1)`).

      To use this, you need to turn on the `bool_MakeDustKappa = True` and correctly change the parameters in the `file_parameters` (Section `4. Dust Kappa Setup`), including `dustopacname_1`, `nr_dust_1`, `amin_1`, `amax_1`, `amin_all`, `amax_all`, `pla_dustsize`, and `rhobulk`.

4. **Star (+UV) Spectrum.** In addition to the dust opacity information, the stellar spectrum (including the UV spectrum) is also required. It needs to be in the `RADMC-3D` format, following the example of `RULupSpecModel_wuv.inp` in the `data` folder. The UV spectrum is required to estimate the UV field close to the star, and it is important for CO chemistry. If you have any UV observations on the target, you can estimate the UV spectrum by fitting a blackbody profile. Or if you do not want to do the fitting or not having the UV observations, scaling the UV spectrum on TW Hya to your target should also give a good estimation. *If you are not using the chemical network part of the code, then only providing the stellar spectrum would still be fine.*

With all of these files and parameters being correctly set up, you should be able to start running your first model.
Also, remember to change the script you have (not provided here) for doing line radiative transfer and making the synthetic image for the new target or new observation to compare with.

---

## Recent Updates:

v1.3.0.beta

Included a few new features and fixed a few bugs. New features including  handling dust settling, set up dust and gas surface densities as function of radii, etc.

More descriptions and tutorials with a more detailed documentation will be added soon.

Commit message:

update to v1.5.0 (sync from DiskMINT_dev)

README.md, after:

# DiskMINT
## DiskMINT (Disk Model For INdividual Targets): a tool to estimate disk masses with CO isotopologues

**Contributors:**

Dingshan Deng (dingshandeng@arizona.edu),
The University of Arizona

Maxime Ruaud,
SETI Institute

Uma Gorti,
SETI Institute

Ilaria Pascucci,
The University of Arizona

## About DiskMINT

`DiskMINT` (Disk Model for INdividual Targets) is a tool for modeling individual disks and deriving more robust disk mass estimates.
`DiskMINT` is a `Python3`-`Fortran` code built on [`RADMC-3D` v2.0](https://github.com/dullemond/radmc3d-2.0) for the continuum (and gas line) radiative transfer, and it includes a reduced chemical network suggested in [Ruaud, Gorti & Hollenbach (2022)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022ApJ...925...49R/abstract) to determine the C18O emission.
For more information, see [Deng et al. (2023)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023arXiv230702657D/abstract).

### The Code

The code contains two parts:

(A) a `Python3` module (located in `DiskMINT/diskmint/`) that is capable of generating a self-consistent 2D disk structure that satisfies VHSE (Vertical Hydrostatic Equilibrium).

(B) a `Fortran` code (located in `DiskMINT/chemistry/`) of the reduced chemical network focusing on modeling C18O in the disk, and it contains the main chemical processes that are necessary for the C18O modeling: a. the isotopologue-selective photodissociation; b. the grain-surface chemistry where the CO converting to CO2 ice is the main reaction.

`DiskMINT` is still a developing tool, and we aim to build it as an easy-to-update and easy-to-use tool. 
Feel free to put any questions, suggestions, and/or comments on the `GitHub` page or directly email the author (dingshandeng@arizona.edu).

`DiskMINT` is open source and released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You are free to use, modify, and distribute this codebase in accordance with the terms and conditions of the license.

---

## REQUIREMENTS:

**RADMC-3D.** `DiskMINT` relies on `RADMC-3D` (currently built on [`RADMC-3D` v2.0](https://github.com/dullemond/radmc3d-2.0)) to do radiative transfer and generate the thermal distributions.
So please make sure the `RADMC-3D` is properly installed.

**Python Module.** The `Python3` module of `DiskMINT` relies on several auxiliary but widely used `Python3` packages:

```
    numpy: used for array operations
    os, sys, copy, shutil: used for handling files and paths
    subprocess (for chemical network): used for executing Fortran code if you want to use the chemical network we provided
```

> Acknowlegement: In this recent update (v1.5.0), the package [`radmc3dPy`](https://www.ita.uni-heidelberg.de/~dullemond/software/radmc-3d/manual_radmc3d/index.html) is no longer required. New stand-alone functions are added to `DiskMINT` to handle the input/output files for `RADMC-3D`. These functions are based on the original `radmc3dPy` scripts that are developed by Dr. Attila Juhasz and later maintained by Prof. Dr. Cornelis P. Dullemond. If you are still using the old version of `DiskMINT` (any of the pre-release versions before v1.5.0), please make sure to install `radmc3dPy`. We note that there are also a few other packages that are required by `radmc3dPy`, such as `Matplotlib`, so please check [their website](https://www.ita.uni-heidelberg.de/~dullemond/software/radmc-3d/manual_radmc3d/index.html) to properly install the package.

**Line Radiative Transfer Code.** The `DiskMINT` module will generate the thermal and density distributions of the disk, which can then be used to do line radiative transfer and make synthetic images.
We do not provide the code to do the line radiative transfer and synthetic imaging (*But do not worry, examples are provided*). 
To get the synthetic image, please use `LIME` -- supports LTE (Local Thermal Equilibrium) and non-LTE -- or the `RADMC-3D` -- only supports LTE -- line radiative transfer module. 
`LIME (v1.9.5)` and `RADMC-3D (v2.0)` are tested on `DiskMINT` model.
For the example results as presented in [Deng et al. (2023)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023arXiv230702657D/abstract), we used [`LIME` v1.9.5](https://github.com/lime-rt/lime) to do non-LTE line radiative transfer.

We also note that to compare with the observation, a proper **image convolution** based on the beam of observation is necessary, and including the continuum emission from the dust in the synthetic image would be helpful in many cases (the continuum can then be subtracted with the same method that is adopted for the observation dataset, or directly compare the synthetic image with continuum to the observation dataset that also contains the continuum).

**Dust Opacities.** Because one major step in the model is to match the Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) of the disk, which requires different dust opacities for each disk.
Therefore, to properly use the model, you need to bring your own dust opacity files (in `RADMC-3D` format), and we also provide a few examples here in the `/examples/`
We recommend using [`optool`](https://github.com/cdominik/optool) or [`dsharp_opac`](https://github.com/birnstiel/dsharp_opac) to generate the opacities for multiple size distributions that are required to correctly calculate the gas thermal structure from gas-dust thermal equilibrium.

**In development.** We will also release a utility file/functions to handle the input/output of the line radiative transfer and dust opacities in late 2025 together with a install-friendly version and a detailed documentation.

---

## Quick Start

### INSTALLATION

1. Download the code to your local directory `Yourpath/DiskMINT/`: clone this repo using `git clone` or other methods to download the part of the code you would like to use. We kindly note that you need to put the package in a directory that you have permission to read, write and execute.
2. To use the `Python3` module (`Yourpath/DiskMINT/diskmint/`): add the path to the package to your `Python3` path: you can do this by adding the `Yourpath/DiskMINT/` to your `Python3` environment `$PATH`, or write `sys.path.append('Yourpath/DiskMINT/')` in the `Python3` script when you want to call the package. 
3. To use the chemical network (`Yourpath/DiskMINT/chemistry/`) we provided: go to `Yourpath/DiskMINT/chemistry/src/`. Edit the `Makefile` in the `src` folder, and change the ` FC = gfortran` to your version of `gfortran`. **Before `make`**, (a) (especially when you need to upgrade the chemical network) If `.o` and `.mod` files already exist in the `/src`, remove them by `rm -i *.o` and `rm -i *.mod`; (b) Make sure that your version of `gfortran` is 10 or higher (you can use `gfortran -v` to check). Note that in some legacy Linux system, the default `gfortran` installed is not the latest version, please check [`gfortran`](https://gcc.gnu.org/fortran) website for newer versions. Then just use command `make` to compile the `Fortran` chemical network.

*The code is built on a `Linux` machine with Intel CPU, and we note that to run `gfortran` on your ARM Mac, be sure to install `gcc` and not use the native `Darwin Mac` Version.*

### Try the examples

There are a few examples we provided to carry out disk modeling with DiskMINT in `Yourpath/DiskMINT/examples/` directory. For example, you can start running the example of the disk around RU Lup by following the steps below

1. Go to the `Yourpath/DiskMINT/examples/example_RULup/` directory.
2. Open the `Python3` script `example_model_RULup.py`. This script calls the functions from `diskmint` module to build your disk model, calls `RADMC-3D` to do radiative transfer and calculate the thermal structure, and also calls the chemical network we provide to calculate the molecular abundances.
3. Edit the `example_model_RULup.py` following the comments in the script. (a) Edit `package_position = "Yourpath/DiskMINT/"` to be the position where you put the module, and you can ignore this line (safe to comment out or delete) if you already add the `Python3` module to your `$PATH`. This is for enabling `import diskmint` in `Python3`; (b) Edit a list of directories and names, including where you want to run the code (`working_dir`), where you want to save the files (`save_dir`), what is the name to be saved for this model (`name_of_this_model`), name of the parameter file (`file_parameters`), and where is the chemical network (`chem_code_dir`); (c) Set up a list of the options of the model, including whether you want to read in your premade dust opacity info (`bool_MakeDustKappa`), to compute the SED (`bool_SED`), to solve the vertical hydrostatic equilibrium (`bool_VHSE`), to run the chemical network (`bool_chemistry`), and to save a copy of the model to your `save_dir` (`bool_savemodel`).
4. Then, you should be able to run the example model of RU Lup using `python3 example_model_RULup.py`.
5. The final output files are the density and thermal distribution in `RADMC-3D` format that can be read by `radmc3dPy` in the `data` folder. Also, if you are using the chemical network, there will be the `COinitgrid-*.dat` (initial grid for CO abundances), `COinitgrid-GSinit_*.dat` (initial grid for CO abundances with pre-set Gaussian vertical distribution before solving VHSE) and `COendgrid-*.chem` (the CO abundances after chemical network). The columns in these `COendgrids-*.chem` are {r[cm], z[cm], log10(abundanceH2)[relative to H nuclei], log10(abundanceC18O)[relative to H nuclei]}.
6. Then, you can use the line radiative transfer code to do the following line radiative transfer. We provide a simple wrapper for running `LIME` as an example in the `example_RULup/LIME_example_RULup/` folder.

### Build Your First DiskMINT Model

For using the model on another target, or if you want to play with it a bit, there are a few things that can be changed.

1. **Edit Parameter File.** Open (and edit) the file `example_RULup_parameters.dat` that sets all the parameters for this model. The data file structure follows `.csv` format (comma `,` as separator) and ignores the line starting with `#`. The columns are with the sequence `name(str), value(str/int/float), units(str), valuetype, description`. The parameters set in this `file_parameters` would be read in the `example_model_RULup.py` with the function `para.read_parameters_from_csv(filename=file_parameters)`, and the parameters can then be changed with `para.edit_parameter(para_name, new_value=new_value)`. So, some parameters already set in the `file_parameters`, such as the model name, are edited in the `Python3` script with `para.edit_parameter("chemical_save_name", new_value = name_of_this_model)`.

2. **Use New Dust Opacity - Part A.** To change the dust opacity (you need to make your own `RADMC-3D` format opacity files using other software such as `optool` or `dsharp_opac`), you need to edit the name of the opacity file (`dustopacname_1`) in the `file_parameters`. Currently, the code supports two different dust compositions, `dustopacname_1` and `dustopacname_2`, and the option of using only one `dustopacname_1` is well-tested. For each dust composition, it needs to be separated into different dust size bins, with the name sequence of `'dustkappa_'+dustopacname_1+'_'+str(i_dust)+'.inp`, where `i_dust` is an integer from `i_dust = 0` to the number of the total size bins `i_dust = (nr_dust_1 - 1)`, and `0` represents the smallest one while the `nr_dust_1 - 1` for the largest size. The `dustkappa_xxx.inp` files need to be put in the `data_dir` that was set in the `model.py` file.

3. **Use New Dust Opacity - Part B.** Besides the `dustkappa_xxx.inp` files, there are also a few other files related to the dust opacity information that need to be provided, including:

   1. `aave.inp` (1-d array): average dust radius of dust species in the unit of `cm`.

   2. `ndsd.inp` (1-d array): `nd(a) * np.pi * a**2`. Where `nd` is the number density of the dust with size `a`.

   3. `frac.inp` (1-d array): mass fractions of dust species -- the mass of the dust with this composition and size divided by the total mass -- the sum needs to be `1`.

   4. `frac_nb.inp` (1-d array): the number fractions of dust species -- number density of the dust with this composition and size divided by the total number density -- the sum needs to be `1`.

      You can follow the example files in the `data` folder to make your own files for the dust composition you used, and for example, if you already set up the `aave_array = np.array([1e-5, 1e-4, 1e-3])`, then you can save it with `np.savetxt('aave.inp', aave_array)`.
      We also provide the function in the code for *making these four `.inp` files* that for the dust opacity (currently only support single composition with `dustopacname_1`) with a simple power law distribution ($nd(a) \sim a^{-\mathrm{pla}}$ with $a_{\mathrm{min}} < a < a_{\mathrm{max}}$) and a uniformly distributed size in log-space (`ai = np.logspace(np.log10(para.amin_1), np.log10(para.amax_1), para.nr_dust_1 + 1)`).

      To use this, you need to turn on the `bool_MakeDustKappa = True` and correctly change the parameters in the `file_parameters` (Section `4. Dust Kappa Setup`), including `dustopacname_1`, `nr_dust_1`, `amin_1`, `amax_1`, `amin_all`, `amax_all`, `pla_dustsize`, and `rhobulk`.

4. **Star (+UV) Spectrum.** In addition to the dust opacity information, the stellar spectrum (including the UV spectrum) is also required. It needs to be in the `RADMC-3D` format, following the example of `RULupSpecModel_wuv.inp` in the `data` folder. The UV spectrum is required to estimate the UV field close to the star, and it is important for CO chemistry. If you have any UV observations on the target, you can estimate the UV spectrum by fitting a blackbody profile. Or if you do not want to do the fitting or not having the UV observations, scaling the UV spectrum on TW Hya to your target should also give a good estimation. *If you are not using the chemical network part of the code, then only providing the stellar spectrum would still be fine.*

With all of these files and parameters being correctly set up, you should be able to start running your first model.
Also, remember to change the script you have (not provided here) for doing line radiative transfer and making the synthetic image for the new target or new observation to compare with.

## Citations
If you use `DiskMINT` as part of your research, please cite 

```
@ARTICLE{2023ApJ...954..165D,
       author = {{Deng}, Dingshan and {Ruaud}, Maxime and {Gorti}, Uma and {Pascucci}, Ilaria},
        title = "{DiskMINT: A Tool to Estimate Disk Masses with CO Isotopologues}",
      journal = {\apj},
     keywords = {Protoplanetary disks, Astrochemistry, Chemical abundances, CO line emission, Planet formation, 1300, 75, 224, 262, 1241, Astrophysics - Earth and Planetary Astrophysics, Astrophysics - Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics, Astrophysics - Solar and Stellar Astrophysics},
         year = 2023,
        month = sep,
       volume = {954},
       number = {2},
          eid = {165},
        pages = {165},
          doi = {10.3847/1538-4357/acdfcc},
archivePrefix = {arXiv},
       eprint = {2307.02657},
 primaryClass = {astro-ph.EP},
       adsurl = {https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023ApJ...954..165D},
      adsnote = {Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System}
}
```

## Community Guidelines
We welcome contributions, issue reports, and questions about `DiskMINT`! If you encounter a bug or issue, check out the [Issues page](https://github.com/DingshanDeng/DiskMINT/issues) and provide a report with details about the problem and steps to reproduce it. For general support, usage questions and suggestions, you can start a discussion in [Discussions page](https://github.com/DingshanDeng/DiskMINT/discussions), and of course feel free to send emails directly to us. If you want to contribute, feel free to fork the repository and create pull requests here. `DiskMINT` is licensed under MIT license, so feel free to make use of the source code in any part of your own work/software.
